It is a well-known established fact throughout the many-dimensional worlds of the multiverse that
most really great discoveries are owed to one brief moment of inspiration. There’s a lot of spadework
first, of course, but what clinches the whole thing is the sight of, say, a falling apple or a boiling
kettle or the water slipping over the edge of the bath. Something goes click inside the observer’s
head and then everything falls into place. The shape of DNA, it is popularly said, owes its discovery
to the chance sight of a spiral staircase when the scientist’s mind was just at the right receptive
temperature. Had he used the elevator, the whole science of genetics might have been a good deal
different.

This is thought of as somehow wonderful. It isn’t. It is tragic. Little particles of inspiration
sleet through the universe all the time travelling through the densest matter in the same way that
a neutrino passes through a candyfloss haystack, and most of them miss.

Even worse, most of the ones that hit the exact cerebral target, hit the wrong one.

For example, the weird dream about a lead doughnut on a mile-high gantry, which in the right mind
would have been the catalyst for the invention of repressed- gravitational electricity generation
(a cheap and inexhaustible and totally non-polluting form of power which the world in question had
been seeking for centuries, and for the lack of which it was plunged into a terrible and pointless
war) was in fact had by a small and bewildered duck.

By another stroke of bad luck, the sight of a herd of wild horses galloping through a field of wild
hyacinths would have led a struggling composer to write the famous flying god suite, bringing succor
and balm to the souls of millions, had he not been at home in bed with shingles. The inspiration
thereby fell to a nearby frog, who was not in much of a position to make a startling contribution
to the field of tone poetry.

Many civilizations have recognized this shocking waste and tried various methods to prevent it, most
of them involving enjoyable but illegal attempts to tune the mind into the right wavelength by the
use of exotic herbage or yeast products. It never works properly.
